# Project 2 - Ames Housing Data and Kaggle Challenge

---

## Overview

The series of notebooks, data files, data visual images, and slideshow presentation contained herein include a review of Ames, IA home sale data with specific business recommendations geared to an architectural firm designing new homes in Ames, IA. The task of researching and modeling the Ames housing data in these notebook files were generated by General Assembly (GA), but the problem statement, data analysis and visualization, linear regression models and iterations, and ultimate business recommendations represent the expertise and opinions of the author. The following README file contains an executive summary of the problem statement, data dictionaries for the final production model dataset, summary of final production model, and recommendations presented before the architectural firm.

---

## Problem Statement

The following iterations of multi-linear regression models are built for an architecture firm in Ames, Iowa. The problem that I am trying to solve is:

**For different features of new home construction, which features' square footage has the greatest predictive power in determining the home's sale price? Based on the model developed, how should these features be minimized or maximized to raise the overall sales price?**

While other factors will be considered in the final production model, such as neighborhood, numbers of rooms, and quality of materials, the primary concern of the final production model will focus on designing and constructing homes for which the largest area is allocated to features which fetch the highest home sale prices in the housing market.

---

## Dataset & Data Dictionary

Although GA provided the original dataset to investigate, I went through multiple multi-linear regression model iterations to arrive at a final production model aimed at resolving our problem statement. The original dataset can found at the link provided below along with an extensive data dictionary:

* [DSIR-626 Ames Regression Challenge](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/626-ames-competition)
* [data description](http://jse.amstat.org/v19n3/decock/DataDocumentation.txt).

For my final production model, I also providing the following data dictionary:

|Feature|Type|Dataset|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|Id|integer|Homes Production|Id given by the dataset for the given home|
|Overall Qual|integer|Homes Production|Rates the overall quality of the home and materials on a scale of 1-10|
|Gr Liv Area|integer|Homes Production|Area of the above ground living area in square footage|
|Year Built|integer|Homes Production|Year that the house was built|
|BsmtFin SF 1|integer|Homes Production|Area of finished basement space, type 1, in square footage|
|Garage Area|float|Home Production|Area of garage in square footage|
|Lot Area|integer|Homes Production|Area of property lot in square footage|
|SalePrice|integer|Homes Production|Price of the home sale in dollars|

---

## Summary of Analysis

In analyzing the data, the following methodology was taken:

1. After cleaning the dataset, numerical variables with a high magnitude correlation with sale price were identified for possible candidates for a preliminary model later. Categorical variables were dummified for the sake of comparison with numerical variables.

2. Polynomial features were used to identify potential patterns of high interaction factors. Ridge and LASSO regularizations were used to identify high correlation features. Along with high correlation numerical features, the highest correlated features from the Ridge and LASSO were used to build a preliminary model.

3. The preliminary model went through several iterations, each time undergoing a standard scaler to compare features at different magnitudes and then a LASSO regularization to determine variables of lesser magnitude in correlation after fitting. The final production model was determined based on the four final area features remaining and two of the most highly correlated features which made the model well-fit.

4. The final production model's errors were analyzed visualized for passing assumptions of linear regression.

---

## Business Recommendations

The home design which correlates with a higher sales price appears to have the following characteristics:

* Larger living area, garage area, finished basement area, and lot size.
* Quality materials matter. The model includes overall quality so our correlations with size can only be assumed holding quality constant.
* Porch area and pool area appear to correlate poorly with home price, except maybe screen porches.
* The design of area in the floor seems to matter more than total square footage. For example, more living area is more important than more total first floor area.